this of course the governor passed and i
was then at liberty to proceed on my
voyage
but in the meantime the packet had
sailed with my sea stores
which was some loss to me and my only
recompense
was his lordship's thanks for my service
all the credit of obtaining the
accommodation
falling to his share he set out for new
york before me
and as the time for dispatching the
packet boats was at his disposition
and there were two then remaining there
one of which he said was to sail very
soon
i requested to know the precise time
that i might not miss her by any delay
of mine
his answer was i have given out that she
is to sail
on saturday next but i may let you know
and through announce
that if you are there by monday morning
you will be in time
but do not delay longer by some
accidental hindrance at a ferry
it was monday noon before i arrived
and i was much afraid she might have
sailed as the wind was fair
but i was soon made easy by the
information that she was still in the
harbor
and would not move till the next day one
would imagine that i was now on the very
point of departing for europe
i thought so but i was not then so well
acquainted with his lordship's
character of which indecision was one of
the strongest features
i shall give some instances it was about
the beginning of april
that i came to new york and i think it
was near the end of june
before we sailed there were then two of
the packet boats
which had been long in port but were
delayed for the general's letters
which were always to be ready tomorrow
another packet arrived she too was
detained and before we sailed a fourth
was expected ours was the first to be
dispatched as having been there the
longest
passengers were engaged in all and some
extremely impatient
to be gone and the merchants uneasy
about their letters
and the orders they had given for
insurance it being wartime
for fall goods but their anxiety availed
nothing
his lordship's letters were not ready
and yet
whoever waited on him found him always
at his desk
pin in hand and concluded that he must
needs right abundantly going myself one
morning to pay my respects i found in
his
antechamber one innis a messenger of
philadelphia
who had come from fence expressed with a
packet from governor denny
for the general he delivered to me some
letters from my friends there
which occasioned my inquiry when he was
to return and where he lodged that i
might send some letters by him
he told me he was ordered to call
tomorrow at nine for the general's
answer to the governor
and should set off immediately i put my
letters into his hand
that same day a fortnight after i met
him again in the same place
so you are soon returned innis
returned no i am not gone yet how so
i have called here by order every
morning these two weeks passed for his
lordship's letter
and it is not yet ready is it possible
when he
is so great a writer for i see him
constantly at his
escritor yes says innis but
he is like saint george on the signs
always on horseback and never rides on
this observation of the messenger was it
seems well founded
for when in england i understood that mr
pitt gave it as one reason for removing
this general
and sending generals amherst and wolf
that the minister
never heard from him and could not know
what he was doing
begin footnote william pitt first earl
of
chatham 1708 to 1778
a great english statesman in orator
under his able administration
england won canada from france he was a
friend of america at the time of our
revolution
and a footnote this daily expectation of
sailing and all the three packets going
down to sandy hook
to join the fleet there the passengers
thought it best to be on board
lest by a sudden order the ship should
sail and they'd be left behind
there if i remember right we were about
six weeks
consuming our sea stores and obliged to
procure more
at the length the fleet sailed the
general and all his army on board
bound to lose berg with the intent to
besiege and take that fortress
all the packet boats in company ordered
to attend the general's ship
ready to receive his dispatches when
they should be ready
we were out five days before we got a
letter with leave to part
and then our ship quitted the fleet and
steered for england the other two
packets he still detained
carrying them with him to halifax where
he stayed some time to
exercise the man in sham attacks upon
sham forts
then altered his mind as to besieging
lewisburg
and returned to new york with all his
troops together with the two packets
of above mentioned and all their
passengers
during his absence the french and
savages had taken fort george
on the frontier of that province and the
savages had massacred many
of the garrison after capitulation i saw
afterwards in london
captain bonnell who commanded one of
those packets
he told me that when he had been
detained a month
he acquainted his lordship that his ship
was grown foul
to a degree that must necessarily hinder
her fast sailing
a point of consequence for a packet boat
and requested an allowance of time to
heave her down and clean her bottom
he was asked how long that would require
he answered three days the general
replied
if you can do it in one day i give leave
otherwise not
for you must certainly sail the day
after tomorrow so he never obtained
leave
though detained afterwards from day to
day during
full three months i saw also in london
one of bonnell's passengers who was so
enraged against his lordship
for deceiving and detaining him so long
at new york
and then carrying him to halifax and
back again that he swore he would sue
him for damages
whether he did or not i have not heard
as he represented the injury to his
affairs
it was very considerable on the whole i
wondered much
how such a man came to be entrusted with
so
important a business as the conduct of a
great army
but having since seen more of the great
world and the means of obtaining and
motives for giving places my wonder is
diminished
general shirley on whom the command of
the army devolved upon the death of
braddock
would in my opinion if continued in
place have made a much better campaign
than that of loudon in 1757
which was frivolous expensive and
disgraceful
to our nation beyond conception for
though
surely was not a bread soldier he was
sensible
and sagacious in himself and attentive
to good advice from others
capable of forming judicious plan and
quick and active in carrying them to
execution
loudon instead of defending the colonies
with his great army
left them totally exposed while he
paraded idly at halifax
by which means fort george was lost
besides
he deranged all our mercantile
operations
and distressed our trade by a long
embargo on the exportation of provisions
on pretense of keeping supplies from
being obtained by the enemy
but in reality for beating down their
price in favor of the contractors
in whose profits it was said perhaps
from suspicion
only he had a share and when at length
the embargo was taken off
by neglecting to send notice of it to
charlestown the carolina fleet was
detained near three months longer
whereby their bottoms were so much
damaged by the
worm that a great part of them foundered
in their passage home
begin footnote this relation illustrates
the corruption that characterized
english public life in the 18th century
it was gradually overcome in the early
part of the next century
in footnote surely was i believe
sincerely glad of being relieved from so
burdensome of charge
as the conduct of an army must be to a
man
unacquainted with military business i
was at the entertainment given by the
city of new york to lord loden
on his taking upon him the command
surely though thereby superseded was
present
also there was a great company of
officers citizens and strangers
and some chairs having been borrowed in
the neighborhood there was one among
them very low
which fell to the lot of mr shirley
perceiving it
as i sat by him i said have they given
you sir too low a seat
no matter says he mr franklin i find a
low seat
the easiest while i was as
aforementioned detained at new york
i received all the accounts of my
provisions etc
that i had furnished to braddock some of
which accounts
could not sooner be obtained from the
different persons i had employed
to assist in the business i presented
them to lord louden
desiring to be paid the balance he
caused them to be regularly examined by
the proper officer who
after comparing every article with its
vouchers certified them to be right
and the balance due for which his
lordship promised
to give me an order on the paymaster
this was however put off from time to
time
and though i called often for it by
appointment i did not get it
at length just before my departure he
told me he had
on better consideration concluded not to
mix his against with those of his
predecessor
and you says he when in england have
only to
exhibit your accounts at the treasury
and you will be paid immediately
i mentioned but without effect the great
and unexpected expense i had been put to
by being detained so long in new york as
a reason for my
desiring to be presently paid and on my
observing that it was not right
i should be put to any further trouble
or delay in obtaining the money i had
advanced as i charge no commission for
my service
sir says he you must not think of
persuading us that you are no
gainer we understand better those
affairs
and know that everyone concerned in
supplying the army finds means
in the doing it to fill his own pockets
i assured him
that was not my case and that i had not
pocketed a farthing
but he appeared clearly not to believe
me and indeed i have since learned
that immense fortunes are often made in
such employments
as to my balance i am not paid it to
this day
of which more hereafter our captain
of the packet had boasted much before we
sailed
of the swiftness of his ship
unfortunately when we came to the sea
she proved the dullest of 96 sail to his
no small mortifications
after many conjectures respecting the
cause when we were near another ship
almost as dull as ours which however
gained upon us
the captain ordered all hands to come
off and stand as near the instant staff
as possible
we were passengers included about 40
persons
while we stood there the ship mended her
pace and
soon left her neighbor far beyond which
proved clearly that our captain
suspected that she was loaded too much
by the head
the casks of water it seemed had been
all placed forward
these were therefore ordered to be moved
further aft on which the ship recovered
her character and proved the best sailor
in the fleet
the captain said he had once gone at the
rate of 13 knots
which is accounted at 13 miles per hour
we had on board as a passenger captain
kennedy of the navy
who contended that it was impossible and
that no ship
ever sailed so fast and that there must
have been some error in the division of
the log line
or some mistake in heaving the log a
wager ensued between the two captains to
be decided
when there should be sufficient wind
kennedy thereupon
examined rigorously the log line and
being satisfied
with it he determined to throw the log
himself
accordingly some days after when the
wind blew very fair and fresh
and the captain of the packet ludwig
said he believed
she then went at the rate of 13 knots
kennedy made the experiment and owed his
wager lost
again footnote a log line is a piece of
wood shaped and weighted
so as to keep it stable within the water
to this is attached to line
nodded at regular distances by these
devices it is possible to tell the speed
of a ship
and footnote the above fact i give
for the sake of the following
observation it has been remarked
as an imperfection in the art of
shipbuilding that it can never be known
until she has tried whether a new ship
will or will not be a good sailor for
that the model of a good sailing ship
has been exactly followed in a new one
which has proved on the contrary
remarkably dull
i apprehend that this may partly be
occasioned by the different opinions of
semen
respecting the modes of lading rigging
and sailing of a ship
each has his system and the same vessel
laden by the judgment and orders of one
captain
shall sail better or worse than win by
the orders of another
besides it scarce ever happens that a
ship is formed
fitted for the sea and sailed by the
same person
one man builds the hull another rigs her
third lads and sails her
no one of these has the advantage of
knowing all the ideas and experience of
the others
and therefore cannot draw just
conclusions from a combination of the
whole
even in the simple operation of sailing
when at sea i have often observed
different judgments in the officers who
commanded
the successive watches the wind being
the same
one would have the sails trimmed sharper
or flatter than another
so that they seemed to have no certain
rule to govern by
yet i think a set of experiments might
be instituted
first to determine the most proper form
of the hull for swift sailing
the best dimensions and properist place
for the masts
then the form and quantity of sails and
their position as the wind may be
and lastly the disposition of the lading
this is an age of experiments and i
think a set of accurately made and
combined
would be of great use i am persuaded
therefore that air long some ingenious
philosopher will undertake it
to whom i wish success we were several
times chased in our passage
but out sailed everything and in 30 days
had
soundings we had a good observation and
the captain judged himself
so near to our report falmouth that if
we made a good run in the night
we might be off the mouth of that harbor
in the morning
and by running in that night might
escape the notice of the enemy's
privateers
who often cruised near the entrance of
the channel
accordingly all the sale was set and
that we could possibly make
and the wind being very fresh and fair
we went right before
it and made great way the captain after
his observation
shaped his course as he thought so as to
pass
wide of the chili isles but it seems
there is
sometimes a strong in-draft setting up
st
george's channel which deceives semen
and caused
the loss of a sir cluttersley shovel's
squadron
this in draft was probably the cause of
what happened to us
we had a watchman placed on the bow to
whom they often called
look well out before thee and he has
often answered aye
aye but perhaps had his eyes shut and
was half asleep at the time
they sometimes answering as is said
mechanically
for he did not see a light just before
us which
had been hid by the stubbing sails
from the man at the helm and from the
rest of the watch
but by an accidental yaw of the ship was
discovered
and occasioned a great alarm we being
very near it the light appearing to me
as big as a cartwheel it was midnight
and our captain fast asleep
but captain kennedy jumped upon deck and
seeing the danger ordered the ship to
wear around
all sails standing and operation
dangerous to the masts
but it carried us clear and we escaped
shipwreck for we were running right
upon the rocks on which the lighthouse
was erected
thus deliverance impressed me strongly
with the utility of lighthouses
and made me resolve to encourage the
building more of them in america
if i should live to return there in the
morning it was found by the soundings
etc
that we were near our port but a thick
fog hid the land from our site
about nine o'clock the fog began to rise
and seemed to be lifted
up from the water like a curtain at a
playhouse
discovering underneath the town of
falmouth
the vessels in its harbor and the fields
that surrounded it
there was a most pleasing spectacle to
those who had been so long without any
other prospects
than the uniform view of a vacant ocean
and it gave us the more pleasure as we
were now free
from the anxieties which the state of
war occasioned
i set out immediately with my son for
london
and we only stopped a little by the way
to view
stonehenge on salisbury plain and lord
pembroke's house and the gardens with
his very curious antiques
at wilton we arrived in london the 27th
of july
1757 as soon as i was settled in
a lodging mr charles had provided for me
i went to visit dr father hill
to whom i was strongly recommended and
whose counsel respecting my proceedings
i was advised to obtain
he was against an immediate complaint to
government
and thought the proprietaries should
first be personally applied to
who might possibly be induced by the
interposition and persuasion of some
private friends
to accommodate matters amicably i then
waited on my old friend and
correspondent mr peter collinson
who told me that john halsberry the
great virginia merchant
had requested to be informed when i
should arrive that he might carry me to
lord granville's
who was then president of the council
and wished to see me as soon as possible
i agreed to go with him the next morning
accordingly mr hansberry called for me
and took me in his carriage
to the nobleman's who received me with
great civility
and after some questions respecting the
present state of affairs in america
and discoursed thereupon he said to me
you americans have wrong ideas of the
nature of your constitution
you contend that the king's instructions
to his governors
are not laws and think yourselves at
liberty to regard or disregard them
at your own discretion but those
instructions are not
like the pocket instructions given to a
minister going abroad
for regulating his conduct in some
trifling point of ceremony
they are first drawn up by judges
learned in the laws
they are considered debated and perhaps
amended in counsel
after which they are signed by the king
they are then so far as they relate to
you
the law of the land for the king is the
legislator of
the colonies i told his lordship that
this was new doctrine to me
i had always understood from our
charters that our laws were to be made
by our
assemblies to present it indeed to the
king for his royal ascent
but being once given the king could not
repeal or alter them
and as the assemblies could not make
permanent laws without his ascent
so neither could he make a law for them
without theirs
he assured me i was totally mistaken i
did not think so however
and his lordships conversation having a
little alarm to me as to what might be
the sentiments of the court concerning
us i wrote it down
as soon as i returned to my lodgings i
recollected
that about twenty years before a clause
in a bill brought into parliament by the
ministry
had proposed to make the king's
instructions laws in the colonies
but the clause was thrown out by the
commons for which we
adored them as our friends and friends
of liberty
tell by their conduct towards us in 1765
it seemed that they had refused that
point of sovereignty
to the king only that they might reserve
it for themselves
begin footnote this whole passage shows
how hopelessly divergent were the
english and american views
on the relations between the mother
country and her colonies
grenville here made clear that the
americans were to have no voice
in making or amending their laws
parliament and the king were to have
absolute power over the colonies no
wonder franklin was alarmed by
this new doctrine with his keen insight
into human nature
and his consequent knowledge of american
character
he foresaw the inevitable result of such
an attitude on the part of england
his conversation with granville makes
these last
pages of the autobiography one of his
most
important parts after some days dr
father gill having spoken to the
proprietaries
they agreed to a meeting with me at mr t
penn's house
in spring garden the conversation at
first consisted of mutual declarations
of
disposition to reasonable accommodations
but i supposed each party had his own
ideas
what should be meant by reasonable we
then went into consideration of our
several points of complaint
which i enumerated the proprietaries
justified their conduct as well as they
could
and i the assemblies we now appear to
very wide and so far from each other in
our
opinions as to discourage all hope of
agreement
however it was concluded that i should
give them the heads of our
complaints in writing and they promised
then to consider them
i did it soon after but they put the
paper into the hands of their solicitor
ferdinand john paris who managed for
them
all their law business in their great
suit with
the neighboring proprietary of maryland
lord baltimore
which had subsisted 70 years
and wrote for them all their papers and
messages
in their dispute with the assembly he
was a proud
angry man and as i had occasionally
in answers of the assembly treated his
papers with some severity
they being really weak in point of
argument and haughty in expression
he had conceived a mortal enmity to me
which discovering itself whenever we met
i
declined the proprietary's proposal that
he and i should discuss the heads of
complaint between
our two selves and refused treating with
anyone but them
they then by his advice put the paper
into the hands of the attorney and
solicitor
general for their opinion and counsel
upon it
where it lay unanswered a year wanting
eight days
during which time i made frequent
demands of an answer from the
proprietaries
but without obtaining any other than
that they had not yet received the
opinion of the attorney and solicitor
general
what it was when they received it i
never learned
for they did not communicate it to me
but sent a long message to the assembly
drawn and signed by paris reciting my
paper complaining of its want of
formality
as a rudeness on my part and giving a
flimsy justification of their conduct
adding that they should be willing to
accommodate matters if
the assembly would send out some person
of candor to treat with them
for that purpose intimating whereby that
i was not
such want of formality or rudeness was
probably
my not having addressed the papers to
them with the assumed titles of true
and absolute proprietaries of the
province of pennsylvania
which i omitted this not thinking it
necessary in a paper
the intention of which was only to
reduce to a certainty by writing
what in conversation i had delivered
viva vosa
but during this delay the assembly
having prevailed with governor denny
to pass an act taxing the proprietary
estate in common
with the estates of the people which was
the grand point in dispute they omitted
answering the message
when this act however came over the
proprietaries counseled by paris
determined to oppose its
receiving the royal ascent accordingly
they petitioned the king and council
and a hearing was appointed in which two
lawyers were employed by them
against the act and two by me in support
of it
they alleged that the act was intended
to load the proprietary estate
in order to spare those of the people
and that if it were suffered to continue
in force
and the proprietaries who were in odium
with the people left to their mercy in
purporting of the taxes
they would inevitably be ruined we
replied that the act had no such
intention
and would have no such effect that the
assessors were honest and discreet men
under an oath to assess fairly and
equitably and that any advantage each of
them might
expect in lessening his own tax by
augmenting that of the proprietaries
was too trifling to induce them to purge
themselves
this is the purport of what i remember
as urged by both sides
except that we insisted strongly on the
mischievous consequences
that must attend a repeal for that
the money one hundred thousand pounds
being printed and given
to the king's use expended in his
service
and now spread among the people the
repeal would strike it dead in their
hands
to the ruin of many and the total
discouragement of future grants
and to the selfishness of the
proprietaries in soliciting such a
general catastrophe
merely from a groundless fear of their
estate being taxed
too highly was insisted upon in the
strongest terms
on this lord mansfield one of the
council rose
and beckoning me took me into the clerks
chamber
while the lawyers were pleading and
asked me if i was really of the opinion
that no injury would be done
the proprietary estate in the execution
of the act
i said certainly then says he you can
have
little objection to enter into an
engagement to assure that point
i answered none at all he then called in
paris
and after some discourse his lordship's
proposition was accepted on both sides
a paper to the purpose was drawn up by
the clerk of the council
which i signed with mr charles who was
also an agent of the province
for their ordinary affairs when lord
mansfield returned to the council
chamber
where finally the law was allowed to
pass some changes were however
recommended
and we also engaged they should be made
by a subsequent law
but the assembly did not think them
necessary for one year's tax having been
levied by the act
before the order of the council arrived
they appointed a committee to examine
the proceedings of
the assessors and on this committee they
put several particular friends of the
proprietaries
after a full inquiry they unanimously
signed a report
that they found the tax had been
assessed with perfect equity
the assembly looked into my entering
into the first part of the engagement
as an essential service to the province
since it secured the credit of the paper
money then
spread over all the country they gave me
their thanks in form when i returned
but the proprietaries were enraged at
governor denny
for having passed the act and turned him
out with threats of suing him
for breach of instructions which he had
given bond to observe
he however having done it at the
insistence of the general
and for his majesty's service and having
some powerful interests at court
despised the threats and they were never
put in execution
unfinished end of chapter 19.
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
appendix
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank woodward pine
appendix electrical kite
to peter collinson philadelphia october
1752 sir as frequent mention is made in
public papers from europe
of the success of the philadelphia
experiment for drawing the electric fire
from clouds
by means of pointed rods of iron erected
on high buildings etc
it may be agreeable to the curious to be
informed
that the same experiment has succeeded
in philadelphia
though made in a different and more easy
manner which is
as follows make a small cross of two
light strips of cedar
the arms so long as to reach to the four
corners of a large
thin silk handkerchief then extended
tie the corners of the handkerchief to
the extremities of the cross
so you have the body of a kite which
being properly accommodated with a tail
loop and string will rise in the air
like those made of paper
but this being of silk is fitter to bear
the wet
and wind of a thunder gust without
tearing
to the top of the upright stick of the
cross
is to be fixed a very sharp pointed wire
rising a foot or more above the wood to
the end of the twine
next the hand is to be tied a silk
ribbon
and where the silk and twine join a key
may be fastened
this kite is to be raised when a thunder
gust
appears to be coming on and the person
who holds the string
must stand within a door or window or
under some cover
so that the silk ribbon may not be wet
and care must be taken that the twine
does not touch the frame
of the door or window as soon as any of
the thunder clouds come over the kite
the pointed wire will draw the electric
fire from them
and the kite with all the twine will be
electrified
and the loose filaments of the twine
will stand out
every way and be attracted by an
approaching finger
and when the rain has wet the kite and
twine
so that it can conduct electric fire
freely
you will find it streams out plentifully
from the key
on the approach of your knuckle as this
key
the file may be charged and from
electric fire thus obtained
spirits may be kindled and all the
electric experiments be performed
which are usually done by the help of a
rubbed
glass globe or tube and
thereby the sameness of the electric
matter with which
that of lightning completely
demonstrated
be franklin the shade of him who counsel
can bestow still pleased to teach and
yet not proud to know
unbiased or by favor or by spite
nor dulli prepossessed nor blindly write
who learned well-bred and though
well-bred
sincere modestly bold and humanely
severe
who to a friend his faults can sweetly
show
and gladly praise the merit of a foe
here there he sits he is cheerful aid
to lend a firm unshaken uncorrupted
friend
a verse alike to flatter or offend
he rarely warm in censure or in praise
good nature wit and judgment round him
wait
and thus he sits enthroned in classic
state
two failings mild but zealous for desert
the clearest head and sincerest heart
few men deserve our passion either ways
from father abraham's speech 1760
end of electrical kite the way to wealth
from father abraham's speech forming the
preface
to poor richard's almanac for 1758
it would be thought a hard government
that should tax its people
one-tenth part of their time to be
employed in its service
but idleness taxes many of us much more
if we reckon all that is spent in
absolute sloth
or doing of nothing with that which is
spent in the
employments or amusements that amount to
nothing
sloth by bringing on disease
absolutely shortens life sloth
like rust consumes faster than labor
wears
while the used key is always bright
as poor richard says but dost thou
love life then do not squander time
for that's the stuff life is made of as
poor richard says how much more
than is necessary do we spend in sleep
forgetting that the sleeping fox catches
no poultry
and that there will be sleeping enough
in the grave
as poor richard says if time
be of all things the most precious
wasting time
must be as poor richard says the
greatest
fragility since as he elsewhere tells us
lost time is never found again and what
we call
time enough always proves little enough
let us then up and to be doing and doing
to the purpose
so by diligence shall we do more with
less perplexity
sloth makes all things difficult but
industry all
easy as poor richard says and
he that riseth late must trod all day
and shall scarce overtake his business
at night
while laziness travels so slowly that
poverty soon
overtakes it as we read in poor richard
who adds drive thy business let not
that drive thee and early to bed and
early to rise
makes a man healthy wealthy and wise
industry need not wish and he that
lives upon hope will die fasting
there is no gains without pains
he that hath a trade hath an estate
and he that hath a calling hath an
office of profit and honor
but then the trade must be worked and
the calling well-formed
for neither the estate nor the office
will enable us to pay our taxes
what though you have found no treasure
nor has any such relation
left you a legacy diligence is the
mother of good luck
as poor richard says and god gives all
things to industry
one today is worth to tomorrow and
farther
have you something to do tomorrow do it
today
if you were a servant you would not be
ashamed that a good master should catch
you idle
are you then your own master be ashamed
to catch yourself idle stick to it
steadily
and you will see great effects for
constant dropping
wears away stones and by diligence and
patience
the mouse ate into the cable and
little strokes fell great oaks
he thinks i hear some of you say must a
man afford himself no leisure
i will tell thee my friend what poor
richard says
employ thy time well if thou meanest to
gain leisure
and since thou art not sure of a minute
throw not away an hour leisure is time
for doing something useful this leisure
the diligent man will obtain
but the lazy man never so that as poor
richard says
a life of leisure and a life of laziness
are two things
keep thy shop and they shop will keep
thee and again
if you would have your business done go
if not
send if you would have a faithful
servant
and when you like serve yourself
a little neglect may breed great
mischief adding for want of a
nail the shoe was lost from what of a
shoe the horse was lost
and for one of a horse the rider was
lost being overtaken and slain by the
enemy
all for the want of care about a
horseshoe nail
so much for industry my friends and
attention to one's
own business but to these we must add
frugality what maintains one vice
would bring up two children you may
think perhaps that a little t
or a little punch now and then diet a
little more costly close a little finer
and a little entertainment now and then
can be no great matter
but remember what poor richard says many
a little makes a mickel
beware of little expenses a little leak
will sink a great ship
and again who dainty's love shall
beggars prove
and moreover fools make feasts and wise
men eat them
but what thou has no need of and air
long
thou shalt sell thy necessaries if you
would know the value of money go and try
to borrow some
for he that goes a borrowing goes a
sorrowing
the second device is lying the first is
running in debt
lying rides upon debts back poverty
often deprives a man of all spirit and
virtue
it is hard for an empty bag to stand
upright
and now to conclude experience keeps a
dear school but fools
will learn in no other and scare in that
for it is true we may give advice
but we cannot give conduct as poor
richard says
however remember this they that won't be
counseled
can't be helped as poor richard says and
farther
that if you will not hear reason she'll
surely wrap your knuckles
the whistle to madame brilliant passe
november 10 1779
i am charmed with your description of
paradise and with your plan of living
there
and i approve much of your conclusion
that in the meantime we should draw
all the good we can from this world in
my opinion we might all draw more good
from
it than we do and suffer less evil
if we should take care not to give too
much for whistles
for to me it seems that most of the
unhappy people we meet with
are come to by neglect of that caution
you ask what i mean you love stories
and will excuse my telling one of myself
when i was a child of seven years old my
friends on a holiday filled my pockets
with coppers
i went directly to a shop where they
sold toys for children
and being charmed with the sound of a
whistle that i met
by the way in the hands of another boy i
voluntarily offered
and gave all my money for one i then
came home and went whistling all over
the house
much pleased with my whistle but
disturbing all the family
my brothers and sisters and cousins
understanding the bargain i had made
told me i had given four times as much
for it as it was worth
put me in mind of what good things i
might have bought with the rest of the
money
and laughed at me so much for my folly
that i cried with vexation
and the reflection gave me more chagrin
than the whistle gave me pleasure
this however was afterwards of use to me
the impression continuing on my mind
so that often when i was tempted to buy
some unnecessary thing i said to myself
don't give too much for the whistle and
i saved my money
as i grew up came into the world and
observed the actions of men
i thought i met with many very many who
gave too much for the whistle
when i saw one too ambitious for court
favors
sacrificing his time and attendance on
levies his repose his liberty his virtue
and perhaps his friends to attain it i
have
said it to myself this man gives too
much for his whistle
when i saw another fond of popularity
constantly employing himself in
political bustles
neglecting his own affairs and ruining
them by neglect
he pays indeed said i too much for his
whistle
if i knew a miser who gave up every kind
of comfortable living
all the pleasure of doing good to others
all the esteem of his fellow citizens
and the joys of benevolent friendship
for the sake of accumulating wealth
poor man said i you pay too much for
your whistle
when i met with a man of pleasure
sacrificing a reliable improvement of
the mind
or of his fortune to mere corporal
sensations
and ruining his health in the pursuit
mistaken man said i
you are providing pain for yourself
instead of pleasure
you give too much for your whistle if i
see one fond of appearance
or fine clothes find houses find
furniture fine equippages
all above his fortune for which he
contracts debts
and ends his career in a prison alas say
aye
he paid dear very dear for his whistle
when i see a beautiful sweet tempered
girl married to an ill-natured brute of
a husband
what a pity say aye that she should pay
so much for a whistle
in short i conceive that the great part
of the miseries of mankind
are brought upon them by the false
estimates they have made
of the value of things and by their
giving too much
for their whistles yet i ought to have
charity for these unhappy people when i
consider that
with all this wisdom of which i am
boasting there are certain things in the
world
so tempting for example the apples of
king john
which happily are not to be bought for
they were put
to sale by auction i might very easily
be led to ruin myself
in the purchase and find that i had once
more given too much
for the whistle i do my dear friend
and believe me ever yours very sincerely
with unalterable affection be franklin
a letter to samuel mather pass a
may 12 1784
reverend sir it is now more than 60
years since i left boston
but i remember well both your father and
grandfather
having heard them both in the pulpit and
seen them in their houses
the last time i saw your father it was
the beginning of 1724
when i visited him after my first trip
to pennsylvania
he received me in his library and on
taking leave
showed me a shorter way out of the house
through a narrow passage
which was crossed by a beam overhead we
were still talking as i withdrew
he accompanied me behind and i turned
partly towards him
when he said hastily stoop stoop i did
not understand him
till i felt my head hit against the beam
he was a man that never missed an
occasion of giving instruction and upon
this he said to me
you are young and have the world before
you stoop
as you go through it and you will miss
many hard thumps
this advice thus beat into my head has
frequently been of use to me
and i often think of it when i see pride
mortified and misfortunes brought upon
people by their carrying their heads too
high
b franklin the end
end of appendix end of
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
you